So let's have a look at web fonts.
As I said, we use these already right here on our website
but I think it makes sense to have a look at it step-by-step now. How can we first find such a web font?
Well, one good source is Google fonts. For that,
you can simply for, well Google fonts right here
and if you then click onto the link, you can find a huge list of a lot of different font families available
right here.
The good thing is that you can also customize these because as you can see, you have 854 font families
in total, maybe a bit too much.
So right here in the categories tab right here, we could for example say we only want to see maybe sans-serif
font families
and with that, we only got 239 left.
Still a lot but I think a bit of a smaller list.
However, let's say we want to pick a specific font family and add it as a web font to our website. There,
we could for example use
maybe the first one, this Roboto right here. As you can see, you have the Roboto name right here, that's
the
font family
and then you can have a look at the font family, for example what it looks like as a sentence, a paragraph
or alphabetically or just by numerals or you could also say custom right here and type some text, like
hello, this is nice,
with that you can get an impression of the way,
well this font family would look like. Here, you can play around with the font size but this is also a property
you already know, so you can change the font size in CSS,
this is what we know
but we have one really interesting option right here
and this is that one, because as you can see, we are still in the Roboto font family but there are
lots of different,
well what are these?
I will tell you in a few seconds, things to choose and these things to choose right here are so-called font
faces.
That's really an important concept that we have to understand because we have our generic family,
this is sans-serif right here. Inside this generic family, we have our font family, now an example Roboto
and this font family Roboto now has different font faces.
This light 300 is the so-called font weight,
we'll have a look at that in the next lecture.
The italic part right here is the font style,
also something we'll delve deeper into in the next lecture.
The important thing now is that we have to specify a font face that we want to use,
for example regular 400 right here, another one medium 500 as you can see
would be thicker or fatter
but we will stick to the regular 400 one.
Now with that, if you choose your font family and your font face, you'll simply press the plus right here
and down here in this menu, you can now find the code you need to import your font family into our code.
The first option we have is the standard import option,
this one, with that we would have to use this link right here and add it now into our code, right here
into the main index.html file and that would be wrong because remember, we want to play around now on
the packages side,
so this side right here. Now until now, we didn't have a problem because we added our Monserrat link,
so this one right here into all our index.html files, so into this one at the customers page,
as you can see Monserrat here and also into the packages page, right here, this Monserrat.
That's why showing you all the things so far in the index.html
and the
shared.css file was not a problem.
But right now things are changing because now I want to import a new font family
and the problem is if I would do that right here in our main index.html file,
well this main index.html file of course is not related or connected to our packages index.html
file and therefore, this font would not be available right there.
So what we would have to do right now is we would have to go back to our Google fonts page right here,
now take this link and copy it
and now add it, that's important, in the index.html
file of our packages folder,
so right here. With that, we imported our Roboto font family to our index.html file in the packages
folder
and if we now go to our packages.css file, we can simply go down here to our package info class, right
there and now simply say we want to use the font family Roboto, as I told you before, we can write it
with single quotation marks or in that case, with normal quotation marks and let's add sans-serif as our
fallback. If we do that now and go back to our website and reload the page right here,
you can see that the font family changed and the really cool thing now is that if we go to our settings
right here again in Chrome and have a look at the font families available, you can see that Roboto
right here is not available
and this shows us that we were now able to import a totally new font family from Google fonts and
with the way we did it right here,
this would also work for other users.
It doesn't depend on the browser you're using or on the fonts you have installed on your machine,
it simply depends on the availability of these fonts at Google fonts.
So this is one way, how we can import web fonts to our website
but the problem with that way is, and that's what we just saw, we have to add it to each HTML
file that we have because otherwise, the font is not available on the page we want to have it
and this can definitely cause errors,
so there might be a better alternative, how to add such web fonts.
The good thing is if we go back to Google fonts right here, we can see that the alternative we have is
the @import method right here. This allows us to import the font in the CSS file right here by using
this command right here,
so basically the @import function.
Let's try that out,
so let's copy that and go back to our code
and now I will add the code right here in our shared.css
file
because we know that each index.html file as we can see it right here refers to the
shared.css file,
so this one, the one in the packages folder
and of course, also the start hosting index.html file
and our main index.html file.
So if we add the web font import in our shared.css file, this should work
and let's maybe add the import right here
on top of our page, like that.
So that's the import we made, let's save this
and let's now delete that part right here we added,
so this link in the HTML file right here
and if we did everything correctly, then well we shouldn't see a change.
So let's reload and as you can see, it's still working and that's why I personally prefer this import
method because it helps us to avoid mistakes
and I think it's easier to understand because we can quickly see that we have our shared.css file
and here we have all our web fonts that we use.
Now as we don't have one single web font but multiple web fonts,
we should also add these.
For that, we will simply copy this @import statement once and twice and keep the distance
and now we only have to see which other web fonts we have so far because right here, we have the family
Anton, this one,
so let's copy it right here and replace Roboto with Anton, like that and then let's also use Monserrat
including these numbers,
these are the font weights,
we'll dive deeper into these in the next lecture
and let's add these also right here as the third import that we make. Now with that, we can get rid of
the links we have right here,
this one in the main index.html file, then the link we have in the customers file and in the packages
file
and finally in the start hosting index.html file, like that.
Now we should save all that,
so saving this, that one and the last one and also the shared.css file,
so a lot of saving
and if we did everything correctly, we should be able to reload the page, yes this looks fine actually,
let's also have a look at the starting page, yes I think this looks also good and customers,
yes
also still our font and on the start hosting page, it still seems to work.
So this is awesome because with that, we made our code a lot leaner as I would say
and we can immediately see in our shared.css file which web fonts we are using
and that's actually the core idea behind these web fonts.
You simply choose the font of your choice right here on Google font page for example, then simply
use @import,
that's at least my preferred method, to import the font to your code and then you simply apply the font
of your choice to the elements of your choice.
That's the core concept but there is one thing we didn't have a look at so far
and if I close that right here and go back to Roboto, then we had this options right here, these different
font faces I had talked about at the beginning of this lecture and I think we should dive deeper into
these in the next video.